What do the following have in common?
Build an ark, choose 300 men, march around the city seven times,
follow this route to the Red Sea.
Did you figure it out?
Jehovah was providing his people with direction.
And in the case of these examples, sometimes that direction
could appear to be, let's say, a bit unusual.
It's not too hard for us to imagine Noah responding,
and you want me to build a massive ark, or Gideon asking,
just 300 men against an army of 135,000?
Are you sure?
Or Joshua replying, march around Jericho seven times,
and just blow our horns?
That's it?
O Moses saying, why are we headed to the Red Sea
when I believe there is a much more direct route
to the promised land?
They all could have responded in such ways.
But did they?
Let's allow the Bible to help us find the answer.
Genesis chapter 6.
In Genesis chapter 6, verse 22,
we find that Noah did according to all that God had commanded him.
He did just so.
In fact, in the examples we've mentioned, they all did just so.
The direction might not have been what they expected,
but they humbly made the mental turn, so to speak,
and they followed the divine guidance wherever it was taking them.
And because they did, they saved not only themselves,
but all those that were with them.
Clearly, the one leading them was Jehovah,
and by their responsive actions,
they were in effect saying to him,
where you go, I will go.
Well, what about you dear graduates here before us today?
Like those faithful ones of old,
you are not alone in navigating your way.
Jehovah is where he has always been.
At the helm, guiding his people.
The only difference is today,
Jehovah is providing direction through his faithful and discreet slay.
And it is due to our limited understanding
that at times the direction may appear to be a bit unusual.
Nonetheless, you have followed that direction,
no matter what it was, no matter where it was taking you.
And for that, we want to say thank you.
In fact, we want to thank all of you in our listening audience
for being responsive toward the direction providing.
But we think especially you dear Gilead graduates
before us today, now why?
Because during the five months that we have spent with you,
we saw you.
We saw how you closely followed the direction of the faithful slave.
You did just so.
For example, when presenting your student assignments,
you did so in English,
even though for most of you, that was not your mother tongue.
And when COVID protocols were set in place,
we saw you follow all of them,
even though they might have been inconvenient,
in order to keep you and your classmates healthy.
And when you were given counsel,
not only from your instructors,
but from each other,
you expressed gratitude for it
and immediately went to work out applying it.
We saw you growing your love for one another,
for God's organization, for Jehovah,
and for His Son Jesus.
All of this was a direct result of your sensitivity
to the direction of the faithful slave.
But what about after you leave this place?
Even if you are assigned back to the country of origin,
you won't be the same person that left.
And things may not be the way you remember them either.
However, we have full confidence
that whatever future changes come your way.
You will continue echoing the sentiments of the Moabitis Ruth.
Recall when she was faced with numerous intimidating changes,
what she said to Naomi.
Her words are recorded for us in Ruth chapter 1,
the book bearing her name, verse 16 and 17.
Ruth said,
Do not plead with me to abandon you,
to turn back from accompanying you.
For where you go,
I will go.
And where you spend the night,
I will spend the night.
Your people will be my people,
and your God, my God.
Where you die, I will die.
And there I will be buried.
May Jehovah do so to me and add to it
if anything but death
should separate me from you.
Now what did all of this actually mean for Ruth?
It meant leaving what was familiar to her.
It meant adopting a people with beliefs different from hers.
It meant following customs
that could result in her becoming the wife of someone she did not choose
or did not even know for that matter.
It meant never returning to what she had left behind.
When Ruth said to Naomi,
Where you go, I will go.
She met with no clauses,
no exceptions, no bargaining.
It was without question.
For Ruth these were not just words.
It was her mind set.
It was the same mindset that Noah,
Gideon, Joshua, and Moses had.
And like them,
he endeavored to always see the one behind the direction.
We will be able to move in heart harmony with the chariot.
Not under it, not behind it,
right alongside it.
In fact, this thought brings back to my mind a fond memory.
I recall when my wife and I lived in South Africa,
I observed a flock of birds in motion.
What species I do not know.
But I'm sure they numbered into the thousands.
And as they swirled and turned as a group in unison,
it was a beautiful magnificent sight to behold.
What's interesting is that scientists think
that each bird focuses not on the entire flock,
but on just a few of its most nearest neighbors in flight.
When those near them turn, they turn.
Each one does this creating a sort of harmonious wave effect.
Well, in a similar way,
when we display by our speech in actions the mindset,
Jehovah, where you and your slave go, I will go,
we motivate others near us to do the same.
When a change in theocratic direction comes,
and we make the turn,
then our spiritual brothers and sisters make the turn with us.
And when Jehovah's people turn in sync in mid-flight, so to speak,
it is a beautiful thing in the eyes of Jehovah.
Just as Noah, Gideon, Joshua, Moses, and Ruth,
set the pattern for all of us.
Now, dear graduates, it is your turn to set the pattern for others.
As you continue to follow closely,
the direction provided by Jehovah, through his faithful slave,
others will see his blessing upon you.
They will see how he is keeping you safe and secure.
They will see your joy and contentment.
And out of a keen desire to have that same experience,
they too will be motivated to say,
where you go, I will go.